Cool.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Welcome to session 416.
This session will be all about using
and customizing Cocoa Bindings.
My name...
is Ron Lue-Saang.
I'm a glue code architect at Apple.
I work on the Cocoa Bindings technology,
which we introduced last year at WWDC,
and then shipped in Panther as
the controller layer for Cocoa.
This year,
I'd like to take the next hour or so
and talk about four high-level topics,
starting off with a general overview
of Cocoa Bindings as a technology,
and how it can speed up your
application development and raise
the quality of your applications.
And then I'll talk about some of
the new features that we've added to
Cocoa Bindings since the last release.
And then I'll finish off with some tips
and tricks for using Cocoa Bindings
in your everyday development,
including a section I call "Roll
Your Own Bindings," where we'll
talk about making your View and
Model subclasses more bindings-friendly.
So let's-- Bless you.
So let's start off with the
overview of Cocoa Bindings.
If I've told you once,
I've told you a thousand times,
model view controller.
So to understand Cocoa Bindings,
you have to be familiar
with Model-View-Controller.
I'll say it again.
You separate your application into
three distinct layers-- the Model,
View, and Controller layer.
And the Controller Layer is the part that
keeps the whole application together,
synchronizing the data from your
Model Layer with the display
logic in your View Layer.
And that's why it's called Glue Code.
Any Cocoa developer will
look at this diagram and see,
"Oh, View Layer Logic.
AppKit helps me with that." And then you
can see that the Model Layer Logic is
built with foundation code,
as well as now core data.
Then the glue code is left up to you.
You do that part.
Well, you did until Cocoa Bindings.
So now we have a reusable
controller layer so that you
can toss out all that glue code,
writing much, much less code to get
the same functionality.
Yeah, that's right.
Oh, yeah.
So, to give you an idea of exactly
what the clicker does...
There we go.
So now Cocoa Bindings completes
the picture of MVC the Cocoa way.
It provides a reusable set of
controller classes that abstracts the
interaction with model layer objects.
And also Cocoa Bindings brings
with it the notion of a binding,
which simply says what attribute of
one object should be kept in sync
with what property of another object.
Simply a description of how to bind
the values between the two objects.
So let me just go through the technology
base on which Cocoa Bindings is built.
There are three distinct protocols
that are in Cocoa that are required for
the Cocoa Bindings technology to work.
The first,
most of you are probably familiar with:
key-value coding.
Then there's Key-Value Observing,
which we introduced last year,
and Key-Value Binding.
Key-value coding is an informal
protocol that lets you access members
of an object by name indirectly.
That way you don't directly
access it by instance variable or
sending method messages directly.
Key Value Observing lets you describe
how an object should be notified
of changes from another object,
so that an interested party
can be notified when something
changes in an observed object.
Key-value binding provides a
mechanism for establishing a binding,
for creating that binding,
that definition of what should be
kept in sync with what other object.
[Transcript missing]
All of the values that are transferred
between the layers are sent via KVC.
So, key value coding messages are
sent all the time to notify,
to send values between the
model and the controller,
the controller and the view.
And then Key-Value Observing
is used for the view,
for example, to register itself as an
observer for the controller.
That way, any changes to the controller,
like for its selection,
the name of its selection, can be sent.
A notification for that change
can be sent to the view.
This is how it knows
that something's changed.
Well, specifically, this is how it knows
The view implements a method also
defined via Key-Value Observing.
The Observed Value for Keypath Method.
This method is invoked
on the View object,
on the observer,
whenever something in the controller,
the observed object, changes.
Key-value binding lets you
bind a view or multiple views
to the same controller object.
This is how the view knows
that it should add itself as
an observer of the controller.
So during a typical edit cycle,
when the user is actually
interacting with the view,
something changes in the view,
and it will propagate the
new value to the controller.
The controller can then,
on behalf of the view,
send that new value
onto the model object,
thus keeping the view
and the model in sync.
Furthermore,
once something does change in the model,
the model can tell the controller
via key-value observing
that something has changed.
And again,
the controller can notify any other views
that are registered with the controller.
This way, not only do the views stay in
sync with the model objects,
but views in the same view hierarchy
can stay in sync with each other.
And all of this is done with
the magic of Interface Builder.
So you can actually configure
these bindings in IB.
It's not a code-- you can still
configure bindings by code,
but you've got IB.
So I think next is a short demo
of how exactly this looks in IB.
We'll go to demo two, I believe.
So we have -- I have a simple nib.
It's even called simple.
An interface builder.
Oh.
Could I get the other other screen,
please?
One more.
There we go.
Thank you.
Let's unclutter a bit.
Here I have a simple window and
another simple panel hooked up
to a simple array controller.
Here you can see I've defined that
the NSArrayController uses a mutable
dictionary for its model objects,
and that my table is bound to
My array controller.
And it's displaying the name of all
the objects in the array controller.
And also the preferred food of all the
people displayed in the array controller.
I'll just show you how this all runs.
Just do test interface.
You can add a couple of items here.
Let's go with... I like pizza.
Let's say Andreas, who likes chocolate,
I know.
Bill, I think, is a sushi guy.
So we can edit all of these values.
And you'll see here that these
text fields up at the top are
kept in sync with the number of
objects that are in the table,
that are in the array.
You can remove and add and
remove and add and remove.
And we also have multiple selection,
so we can count how many
things are selected.
You can even edit other values,
like the favorite language
of each of these people.
I'm pretty sure Andres likes German.
I think Bill likes foul language.
I can't remember.
So, and, you know,
I can change the attributes
of the text field here,
the display attributes.
So the text font size on a little -- this
is supposed to be a preferences panel,
but, yeah.
And even the text color -- oops.
So, oh, there seems to be a break
in the binding here.
Let's go update that.
So here you can see I have
my text color binding bound
to the shared user defaults.
And here in the color well-- oh,
it wasn't highlighted.
Well, you get the idea.
The text color really
does normally change.
So we can do all of this stuff
without writing any code,
all in IB.
We get a lot further developing
our application just finishing the
interface in Interface Builder.
So this is what
Cocoa Bindings will give you.
If we can go back to the slides.
Tiger.
OK, so that ends the demo.
That's, also,
the end of the overview section.
How many of you guys have actually
played with Cocoa Bindings already,
by the way?
Oh, yeah.
How many of you have, like,
never heard of Cocoa Bindings before?
Raise your hands.
It's OK.
All right, OK.
So then the overview isn't
completely without merit.
So that's the end of the overview.
Now we go into new features,
things that we've added to
Cocoa Bindings for Tiger.
The first two features that
I'll go over are the result
of a lot of feature requests.
The first will be a tree controller,
so that now you have something to bind
to from the outline view in the browser.
: And we also have filtering
built into the NSA controller,
so you don't have to subclass anymore.
Glad you like it.
I'll show you a little bit
more about each of these.
First, with the Tree Controller.
With the Tree Controller,
we wanted to make it as easy as
possible to get used to using it.
So, it kind of feels a little bit
like using the Array Controller.
Except, of course,
Array Controllers manage arrays,
but the Tree Controller manages
a tree of objects.
But that tree isn't
specifically any NS tree class,
or you don't have to import your
data into any specific class,
or re-architect all of your objects.
We just expect that you have what
is probably natural for all of
your data as far as tree goes.
That you have arrays of objects
that have arrays as children
objects of arrays of arrays.
So this graph up here pretty
much sums up what the tree
controller expects of your data.
If you can describe your data this way,
then you can use your tree
with the Tree Controller.
All you have to do is
just describe your tree.
And the main thing for that
description is the children key.
If you set the Children key
of the Tree Controller,
That's the key the Tree Controller will
use to traverse all of
the nodes of your tree.
So this has the caveat that all
of the objects in your tree have
to respond to this children key,
"key." This can usually be done
by subclassing or by adding a
category or changing the source.
There are also some optional
keys that you can set,
the leaf key and the count key,
which offer some optimizations for
whether or not the tree controller
should traverse children there.
And then of course there are some actions
that we expose for the Tree Controller.
So you can bind buttons to it for
adding siblings to the selection,
as well as adding child
objects to the selection,
and removing any of the selected
objects from the Tree Controller.
And then, after you've set all the keys
and set up your Tree Controller,
you need to tell it where
the root of the tree is.
You do this with either
a content object binding,
or by explicitly setting the content
object the same way as an outlet,
just using an outlet.
From there,
the Tree Controller will start
managing the tree of objects.
There are also some extra
keys that we've added.
They look a lot like the
Array Controller keys,
starting off with the Arranged Objects,
which returns the root of the
tree after any sorting has
happened to the child objects.
Then there's also the Selection
that knows how to manage
intelligently multiple selection,
no selection, not applicable,
returning the appropriate
key value binding markers.
And we've added a couple of keys just
for convenience in Interface Builder:
canInsertChild and canAddChild.
We also have canInsert and
canAdd in just plain form,
so that now you can bind the enabled
value of one of your buttons,
so that if the tree controller
doesn't support adding a child,
then the button can stay disabled.
And we've also added selection
index paths as a controller key,
which isn't the same
as selection indexes.
That's because we needed something
different to identify nodes in the tree.
You can think of the NSIndexPath,
which we've added to Foundation,
as the identifier for nodes in the tree.
It's similar to thinking about how you
access elements of an array by index,
except now we have a path of indexes
that represents all the children of each
node that you traverse through the tree.
So here,
249 would indicate the child at index 9,
of the child at index 4,
of the child at index 2
of the root of your tree.
It's a condensed way of
representing each node in your tree.
So now that you have the Tree Controller,
you can bind the NSOutlineView to
the Tree Controller and the
NSOutlineView's table columns.
And that looks, again,
exactly like binding a
regular TableView table column
to the Array Controller.
You just bind the values or
texts or font size or anything.
And then you bind the content
and selection index paths of the
OutlineView to the Tree Controller.
The content binding gives the
OutlineView all of the objects,
basically the root object, to display.
And then the selection index paths is
how the OutlineView keeps its selection
in sync with the Tree Controller.
And as I said,
we also have support for NSBrowser,
which has pretty much the same bindings,
content and selection index paths,
and then also a content values
binding that you want to bind so
that it'll actually get the value
to display in the browser cell,
rather than just displaying
the description of the content,
of any of the content objects.
After that, oh, one thing.
If you go home and
play with this tonight,
try and hook up the outline
view to the tree controller,
and you go and start adding things,
adding nodes to your tree,
and start editing it.
Editing isn't supported yet, sorry.
That's coming.
But you can still browse
through the outline view and
adjust the layout of the tree.
That's still supported.
And the next major feature is
filtering in the NSRA Controller.
We've added filtering directly
to the NSArrayController,
so you don't have to subclass
anymore to get filtering support.
But in the process of adding filtering
support to the array controller,
we figured we'd add
filtering support to NSArray.
And we've also improved the
synergy of using the array
controller with the search field.
And all of that comes to us
thanks to the NS predicate.
If you caught the core data talk
earlier-- did anybody catch that talk?
Yeah, good, good.
With Core Data, we get a new class,
the NSPredicate.
Basically,
it's a class that describes a condition.
And here, the string representation
of one of these predicates,
of a simple predicate,
it looks a lot like the condition
statement of a C-based language.
So it's pretty easy to use.
It's really easy to work with.
And once you have a predicate,
you can filter an array,
get a filtered array from an
unfiltered one using this method,
filterArrayUsingPredicate,
or filterMutableArrayInPlace
using filterUsingPredicate.
And of course,
you can filter an NSArrayController
using setFilterPredicate.
Once you have an array controller
and you set its filter predicate,
all of the arranged objects,
the objects returned from the arranged
objects accessor of the array controller,
are the ones that match the condition
defined in the filter predicate.
There's also a controller
key for the filter predicate,
so you can bind objects that
provide predicates to the
ray controller directly.
And because of the way
the filtering works,
there might be strange user interaction.
If, for example, someone has filtered out
objects in a table view,
and they go and add a new
object into the array controller
pressing the little Add button,
and then it adds it,
but immediately filters it out.
That can be confusing to some users,
and so we've added a new
option to the array controller:
clears filter predicate on insertion.
With this option turned on,
which is by default,
the array controller will
clear out the filter predicate,
setting it to nil,
and then insert the new object.
This should prevent a lot of confusion
when inserting new objects by users.
And just to clarify,
remember that the arranged objects
of the array controller is simply
a filtered representation of the
content of the array controller.
So don't worry about it deleting the
objects from your underlying array.
Search fields.
So when we released
Cocoa Bindings in Panther,
we had search field support in the
form of a recent searches binding.
This gave you the ability to build
search field menus much like the
one that you'll find in Safari.
With Tiger,
we've added support for building
search fields that look a
lot like the one in Mail,
so that you can select
what you want to filter on,
and then the user can type
in the search criteria,
and the filtering happens based on
whether it's from or to or subject.
And it's pretty simple.
You simply bind the filter predicate,
bind the predicate from the
search field to the filter
predicate of the array controller.
And for every binding you
make from the search field,
you get another menu in
the resulting search field.
And again,
for every binding that you make,
for every menu item,
you have two options that you can set.
The NSDisplayName binding option
lets you set the name of the menu
that'll show up in the search field.
So this way it's easy
to localize your nibs.
And then NSPredicateFormat binding
option gives you the ability to set the
predicate format for that menu item.
So defining that the From menu
item should search on the
From category of your model objects.
We've also added some
integration with Core Data,
speaking of NS predicates.
What we've done is added support for
Core Data-like functionality directly
to the NS Object and NSArray Controller.
in the form of...well,
actually I'm getting ahead of myself.
I should talk to you
about Core Data first.
The idea behind Core Data is that you
define a description of your data,
all of the model objects
of your application.
Rather than writing all of the classes,
you define an entity.
So the entity has all the
information that describes the
model objects of your application.
With that description,
you can use an NSManagedObject
context to manage managed objects.
There's a lot of management going on.
With the managed object context, though,
it'll manage all of your
I guess that's really
the only way to say it.
It'll try and keep a minimal
set of objects that you're
working with in memory.
So this is a good way to do, like,
as-needed faulting of your
objects into memory space without
you having to do much work.
And it also manages storage
and retrieval of your data,
so it can handle saves and opens for you.
I think anyone who went to
the Core Data Talk knows
what I'm talking about.
So you don't have to write any of that
extra code in your NSDocuments subclass
for saving and opening documents.
And the way the managed object
context gets these objects,
and how you specify which
objects it should manage,
is by using a predicate.
The predicate simply defines
for the managed object context
which objects to fetch.
With these three items,
you can pretty much manage all of your
model objects just through Core Data with
a minimal amount of code work.
And what we've done with the controllers
is at the ability to define which
entity the controller uses to which
entity the controller manages really.
This is opposed to
what is normally there,
which is defining the object class.
Now that you can define the entity,
you can also define a fetch predicate,
which is, in this case,
different from the filter
predicate of the array controller.
This is simply the predicate that the
controller should use to fetch objects.
And there's also a way of setting
the managed object context that
the controllers will fetch into.
You can do this either via
binding or by an outlet in IB.
So with these three items,
with these three pieces of information,
the controllers can actually
fetch for you through core data,
just by knowing the entity,
what fetch predicate
to apply for the fetch,
and which managed object
context to fetch into.
You can even set the controllers to fetch
automatically for you on nib instantiate,
or you can wire up an action from a
button so that users can click the
little fetch button as much as they like.
And something to note,
when you're executing a fetch from the
Is that clock right?
When you're executing a fetch from the--
From the controller-- oh,
into the object context, sorry.
So when you're fetching,
normally it's possible to define
not only a fetch predicate,
but also a sort ordering.
But once you have an array controller,
it's really better to sort in the UI.
That's always going to be more correct.
Another thing is we've added
a content set binding to the
array controller so that you can
bind a detail array controller,
like an array controller that manages
the relationship from a managed object.
Because managed objects in core data
have relationships that are held in sets,
the array controller can't directly
handle the relationship objects.
So we've added the content set binding.
And another cool side effect
of key-value observing,
of building on those
three KV-BLA technologies,
KV-STAR technologies,
with key-value observing,
the controllers are always in sync with
what's in the managed object context.
So you get all of that magic for free,
where if something is
inserted into the context,
it's automatically
propagated up to the UI.
[Transcript missing]
For this, I'd like demo two again.
Sorry.
False signals.
Okay,
so we'll toss out this simple example.
We'll go to Xcode.
First, I'll demo the Tree Controller.
I have a simple app that I ripped
off from one of my-- or borrowed
from one of my coworkers.
And it's a file system browser.
Oh, I should show you that I don't
actually have much code in here.
I have a couple of classes that
actually represent the nodes in
The nodes of the file system.
So these actually go out and
get the information of the
files in the file system,
and return it as a path component.
And my main controller
really has not much in it.
[Transcript missing]
So this is just a model
object sort of thing.
I'll turn off Zoom for a sec.
And go back to the app.
So this is just an outline view bound
in the top to a tree controller,
and a browser bound to the same
tree controller in the bottom,
as well as a text field
that displays the selection.
So I can traverse through
developer documentation.
And you can see that the outline
view selection is being kept in
sync with the browser selection.
[Transcript missing]
For the filtering demo,
I was going to run one application,
but something's happened to it.
So I'll skip that demo.
I'll try and do something a
little later if I have time.
So I'll just go back to the slides now.
So, other new features.
We've done a couple of other things
beyond just the core NSController work.
We've also added a binding debug
mode to help you guys debug the
binding problems you might run into.
It's a pretty simple switch.
There's a defaults write,
NSBindingDebugLogLevel.
Set that to 1.
And any errors that the bindings
encounter accessing or setting values or
invoking methods will get logged for you,
defining what was bound
and what the error was.
So you can track down if there were
any configuration errors in your nib.
Another thing we've added
is info for binding.
This way you can get more information
about a binding for any bound object.
So if you have a bound view,
a text field or something,
and you invoke info for binding,
you'll get a dictionary back of
information relating to a specific
binding for that text field.
The dictionary has information
like the object that it's bound to,
which is usually its NSController,
as well as the observed keypath,
so the keypath that the
view was bound with.
And also the options key gives
you back a dictionary of options
that the view was bound with.
More new things on the
NSArray Controller.
If you've ever worked with the
Multiple Values Selection Marker,
It's a cool thing if you select
multiple objects in an array controller,
for example,
and they all have the same name,
and you want to display the name of
the selection in the array controller.
The selection proxy,
the object you get from asking the
array controller for its selection,
can actually return either the multiple
selections marker or the common name
for all the objects in the selection.
The way it does this is it runs
through all of the selected objects
and compares whatever you're going
to display for those objects.
So if they all have the same name,
then we'll display the name.
Otherwise, we display the multiple
selection marker placeholder.
This might be a little bit
more information than you need.
But the point is,
now there's a new option to turn off
that behavior so that any time that
there's more than one item selected,
we'll always return the
multiple selection placeholder,
the selection marker.
So this can be a big optimization
for selections that are very large
where all the names might be similar,
or all the values might be similar.
And we have other random options
and bindings that we've added.
NSView now has a tooltip binding.
NSTextView has an
attributed string binding,
so now you don't have to
convert from RTF data,
blah, to get attributed strings
into your text fields,
your text views.
NSWindow now has a display
pattern title binding,
so you can customize the display of
the window based on multiple pieces
of input from the controllers.
The table column now has a new
option for turning off automatic
creation of the sort descriptors.
We automatically create sort
descriptors for all of the
table columns in your table.
That way you get sorting for free.
Some people don't like that.
So now you can turn that off.
And as I said,
we have a new binding for the
ArrayController content set for working
with the managed objects relationships.
We've also added some changes to the
way NSPopupButton and NSMatrix work.
Specifically, we've added ContentObjects
as a new binding.
With ContentObjects, you can imagine
If you bind the pop-up button to
an array of objects as its content,
and you want to synchronize the
selected objects of the pop-up button,
Normally,
you would get back in that selected
objects array all of the objects that
are selected from the content array.
But you might actually be more
interested in objects related to
the objects in the content array.
So now with content objects,
you can define, for example,
the name of all the people in--
the name of the people that
you're displaying at the pop-up
will become the selected objects.
So you can target a different
object in your pop-up.
It's really simpler to
use than to explain.
Sorry.
NSMatrix has two modes that we support.
Three modes, really.
In radio mode, the default,
we support single selection.
So there are two bindings,
the selected value and
the selected object.
When the matrix is in
list or highlight mode,
we now support multiple selection,
so that you have the selected values
and selected objects bindings available.
This is simply a change that
we had from last release.
Oh, all right.
New features, that's it.
Now I'll go into some of the
tips and tricks for building
Cocoa friendliness into your own classes.
If you have model objects that you
want to use with Cocoa Bindings,
you're probably done.
Usually that's all you need to do,
as long as the attributes that
you expect to be bindable are
key-value coding compliant.
So in other words,
you have either a key-value coding
compliant accessor for the attribute,
or you allow direct IVAR access.
Usually that's all you really need to do.
And part of that is that
Key-Value Observing automatically
sends out notifications that
Cocoa Bindings requires.
As long as the attributes that
you're exposing is bindable,
or Key-Value Coding compliant,
Key-Value Observing does the
notification generation for you.
If for some reason you have
other attributes that you want
to expose as bindable that aren't
key-value coding compliant,
or you have some really complex
logic that changes lots of values,
lots of attributes of your
model object all at once,
then you can send out
notifications manually.
Simply invoke self
willChangeValueForKeyPath defining
the key path it is about to change,
change the value related
to that key path,
and then invoke self
didChangeValueForKeyPath.
This is the way that you
send out key-value observing
notifications manually.
So as long as your object is
key-value observing compliant,
and you have some key-value coding
compliant way of getting to the values,
the next thing you would need to do-- oh,
actually, this is on the wrong slide.
Key-value binding exposing
should be on this slide.
If you have a view that you want
people to be able to bind from,
so that it has those neat
little attribute boxes show
up in Interface Builder,
all you need to do is pretend that those
last two items are on the next slide.
Exposed binding and exposed
bindings are two methods that
you can use on your class.
They're defined in key-value-binding.h.
It lets you programmatically
expose bindings for your class.
That way,
they show up in Interface Builder,
as long as the class is loaded
by a bundle or a pallet.
Continuing with making your
view Cocoa Bindings compliant,
once you've exposed a
binding of your view,
You'll need to implement the
bind-to and unbind methods.
The BindTo method is how
you get the information of
what your binding should do,
of what to synchronize between your
view and some controller object.
Typically there you would simply
cache the object you're binding to,
as well as the key path and
options dictionary that you're
creating the binding with.
And immediately after,
you would typically add
yourself as the observer of the
object you're being bound to.
So your view would invoke
self add observer or object
that you're binding to,
add observer self.
So that way you'll get notifications
in the form of observed value
for keypath whenever something
in the observed object changes.
Once you have that in place,
if you have a view that's actually
doing something that's editing related,
editing a value rather than just display.
You'll probably also want to
implement the NS Editor and
NS Editor registration methods.
Well, really implement the
NS Editor methods and know about
the NS Editor registration methods.
NSEditor is an informal protocol
that defines how the controller
can tell your view that it should
stop editing or discard editing.
Commit editing is invoked on
your view if you should try
and end editing in your view,
and then you can return a yes
succeeded, or no,
if there was some sort of
verification validation error.
Discard editing is sent when
you should just throw out any
changes that the user has made
and revert to the previous value.
Once you start editing,
once an editing session has started,
like the user has started moving
around something in your view,
in your control,
then you can invoke objected
begin editing on the controller
that you're bound to.
You should be notified if it should
commit edits or discard any edits.
And then, of course,
once editing is done,
you can send the controller
objected and editing.
Now once you have your view,
and it's bindable and beautiful,
then you should really
put it on a pallet.
That's the best way to take
advantage of Cocoa Bindings,
so that people who use your view,
use your code,
don't have to write the manual bind to
blah blah blah methods in their classes.
Now, just going over again some of
the basics of how Cocoa Bindings
works with key-value coding,
observing, and binding.
When I say a key-value
coding compliant accessor,
I'm really talking about a name
and set name kind of method pair.
With that,
your model object will be key-value
coding compliant for the key name.
So that way you can bind the sum
attribute to an object that is of your
object type with the keypath name.
That's all you need to know for that one.
Oh, oh, that's true.
Now, if you're a Vue,
and you want to implement
this bind method,
again, what you would typically do in
your implementation is cache
away the observed controller,
the keypath,
and the binding options that are
sent in during the binding creation.
And if you're going to
support more than one binding,
it's probably a good idea to cache these
in a dictionary on a per-binding basis.
This way when you get
the key value observed,
Observe value for keypath
method invoked on your view.
You can keep track of what attribute
you're supposed to update in your view.
And here, I'd like to ask Andreas to
come up to do a little demo.
He doesn't know what
I'm getting him into.
So I think a lot of people are kind of
confused about how Cocoa Bindings works,
how the BindTo method works.
Perfect.
If we pretend that you guys are the
developer of some application and I'm
a view and Andreas is a controller--
not that I'm saying anything here-- in
order for me to keep some attribute,
say my-- I'd wanted to find a hat
actually-- say which arm is up,
if I wanted to keep that in
sync with some value that
Andreas can give me-- exactly,
see?
All you have to do is say, Ron,
bind arm height to Andreas.
Ron, bind arm height to Andreas.
Perfect.
So it's something like that.
So now, anything Andreas does,
I can see and update my state.
It's pretty simple, right?
See, now the great thing is--
The great thing is,
with bindings you can also add value
transformers so that anything that
I get from the controller can be changed
before actually sent to the view.
So if there was an NS negate
boolean transformer,
or negate arm height transformer,
anything he did would be in reverse.
I'm not done with you yet.
Let's do a little role reversal,
as my therapist would normally say.
Let's pretend that I'm the controller
and that Andreas is the view.
What really happens is,
if something changes in
some model object somewhere,
Then I would send a
notification to Andreas.
And what this really highlights
is not only that the notification
is really lightweight,
But since it's so lightweight,
could you go get that?
We can send a lot.
Really fast.
So this is how you should
think about Cocoa Binding.
Well, maybe not.
But you get the idea.
Hopefully that clears up exactly
what's going on when you bind objects,
bind a view to another object.
And with that, I think...
Now, quick recap.
Yeah, yeah, there we go.
So, Model-View-Controller.
Again, Model-View-Controller.
That's what we're based on.
Cocoa lives and breathes
Model-View-Controller.
Because of the code reuse,
that's really what we get out
of Model-View-Controller here.
And with Cocoa Bindings,
now we get a set of
reusable controller objects,
as well as the notion of bindings,
so that we can cut out all the glue
code that we're used to writing.
And to keep with the
outline that I introduced,
some of the new features
we've added to Cocoa Bindings
includes a tree controller.
So now you have something to bind to
from the outline view in the browser.
We've also added filtering
directly to the array controller,
also to NSArray and NSMutableArray.
We've even added core data support
to the controllers so that you can
fetch directly in the controllers.
And then we've added some new
bindings and bindings options,
which you'll see in the
documentation forthcoming.
One more.
And so the tips and tricks for rolling
your own bindings come down to making
sure that your model objects and your
view objects are key-value coding,
key-value observing,
and key-value binding friendly.
This means making sure that all of your
model objects have actual KVC accessors,
and that you can do the key-value
observing notifications.
And then for your view classes,
it really helps to expose the
bindings of any attributes you want,
and then put that view on a palette.
And with that,
here's all the reference stuff.
And who to contact would be Matt Formica,
who will be coming up shortly, I believe.